>> Evan: The idea is, [COUGH] our
smart avatar is a stateful component,
so it can hold some state,
it can be responsible for
counting the API, and
will do that in its lifecycle hooks,
right?
>> Evan: So the width after your
URL should return the smart avatar itself,
in this case we use object syntax.
The first thing we do is instead
accepting source as a prop,
we accept user name as prop, all right?
And the other thing is it should be
rendering,
>> Evan: Remember to use
the proper function syntax.
So obviously, it should be just returning
the avatar component internally.
Because ultimately,
this is what we're trying to do.
The interesting thing is,
we want to pass additional data.
I want to pass props to avatar,
I want to pass it to the source props.
The question is how do we find
out what the source is, right?
And let's just say,
we have some local states
inside this component,
which is URL.
And by default, when we first load this
component, we only have the username.
We don't have the URL yet.
And the requirement says,
we should, wait, it is here.
Where is the requirements?
Okay, It's here.
It says, before the API returns,
the higher order component should be
passing placeholder URL
to the inner component.
We'll just copy that and use that as
the default value for our URL here, ight?
We'll just whatever,
we'll just pass it in.
So now, first, we've created a smart
avatar component, not so smart.
It always just renders in avatar
with a placeholder image.
And now, we need to figure out how
to find out where the real URL is.
So let's do that in a life cycle hook.
So when the component is created,
we're gonna call this API.
We're gonna fetchURL.
And because it's expected user name,
we'll just, right?
We'll call it with the username.
And it accepts the call back which
gives you the url that we need.
>> Evan: And inside that call back,
we'll just set our url to the correct url.
>> Evan: So does this make sense?
So essentially, we're maintaining
an intermediate piece of state.
And this state is the url, and
it starts with a placeholder.
And it is changes after we have
fetched the desired URL from the API.
All we are doing is passing it
down to the avatar component.
The good thing is we have
extracted a piece of functionality
very cleanly out of inner and
outer component into this thing.
And believe it should work, so
it's better to just
actually open it in order.
So this is the effect, so it shows
a placeholder and interns into that.
So imagine, you can do something
like a blurry effect or
initially showing other things you
can do a lot of fancy stuff in here.
The good thing is,
you can encapsulate all of that
inside this higher order component.
It doesn't leak anywhere else,
so which is very nice.
So one small thing,
that we might want to think about,
is that this component
currently is pretty optimized.
In the sense, it always hits the API,
whenever it's created.
But we can actually create
something like a cache
here that caches the username and
URL pairs.
So that, we don't need to actually
hit the API all the time.
You can have a cache here with
a username and URL pairs.
And inside our data here,
we can directly start with
a cached hit if it exists and
we check again here.
If it's already a cached hit,
we don't need to call the API at all.
So you can do a lot of things,
authorizations,
fancy functionalities, inside here.
But it doesn't affect the usage
to the parent component at all.
No matter what you do
inside that component,
this parent component
usage stays the same.
This inner component,
the Avatar component stays the same.
They don't need to change, right?
You can do all the work inside
this higher order component, but
you're not affecting your parent,
your child.
So this is good, because it shows that
it is a good encapsulation mechanism.
The only interface we're using
to talk between the parent and
the child is view props.
Because the way we communicate is so
constrained.
This make ensures that change in
the inter implementation of this
enhancer doesn't affect
other parts in your code.
This is critical,
if you have a large team, a large project.
And you want to make sure when you are
changing things, you're not stepping on
other people's toes,
not accidentally breaking other things.
The trick to that is,
make sure this piece of code,
finding contracts with other parts
of the code base, is minimal.
In this case, the only thing that is
connecting to other pieces in the code
are the incoming props and
the outgoing props.
So this is great, because this is a very
clear constraint, it's very minimal.
It gives you very little chance of
breaking other people's things.
>> Speaker 2: In your render function
there, you're referencing Avatar.
Shouldn't you be actually
referencing the InnerComponent?
>> Evan: Yes that's a mistake here.
Yeah, so this makes this with
Avatar url more generic.
So any InnerComponent that
takes a URL prop can be
used with this avatar URL thing.
And it can be more generic, for
example you can take something like,
you can even pass the fetchURL
function here, right?
So instead of hardcoded to
always be fetching avatars,
you can on the fly customize
what you're actually fetching.
It takes the username,
you can fetch the avatar,
you can fetch other
information about the user.
But you're using the same interface
to enhance inner components.
And this increases the reusability for
this enhancer as well.
What are the difference between
created and mounted hooks for
fetching data?
>> Evan: To be honest,
the difference is minimal.
The main difference is that
mounted is called after
the rendering happens and
the actual dominos are created.
So technically, created will be
caught earlier, then mounted.
If your component takes
a long time to render,
then created might be called
even earlier than mounted.
And it's good to send
the request out beforehand,
because the request needs to go through
the internet and there's latency.
So the can overlap with the time
it takes to render a component.
So that's the main thing.
There was an early question about slots.
I think, it's actually easier
to read the docs about slots.
But slots API was actually derived
from the same standard from W3C.
And so, in web components,
there's a slot mechanism.
And views implementation
loosely follows that spec, but
we kinda enhance it in a few ways.
And most importantly, view slot mechanism
works in rendered functions too.
So if you use a function that
uses rendered functions,
a user component that uses
render functions like this, so
you can do, slot = "foo".
>> Evan: And
the way to access this
slot inside a render
function is by doing this.$slots.foo.
This will give you
an array of virtual nodes,
that falls into this slot.
Because you can have multiple things
that fall into the same slot.
So you gonna have an array.
And if you don't give it any slot name,
then all unnamed ones will be
inside this.$slots.default.
This is also an array, so
you can pass them directly
as children to this.
Essentially, you're passing on the slot
content into this inner component.
Even better, well, yeah,
this is a typical use case.
Another trick that we can talk about
is inheriting the outer attributes.
So we have this higher
order components like here.
If you do something like, id="foo",
unfortunately it won't be passed down to
the inner component,
because we didn't explicitly list it.
But this id will in fact,
be collected inside an attribute card,
a property called, this.$attrs.
This is a new feature in 2.4.
Which means you can pass
it down like this.
So this way,
you're relaying all the additional
attributes down to the intercomponent.
So this id were in fact, now,
be rendered on the internal Avatar.
But the default behavior is only
explicitly listed props will
be passed down.
This also means in created hook, you can
not access dominoes, that's correct.
Only mounted hook guarantees
the DOM has been created.
In created hook,
it means the instance is created.
On the website, there's a documentation,
>> Evan: Lifecycle Diagram.
>> Evan: As you can see,
when the created hook is called
we have initialize events,
Lifecycle injections and reactivity.
These are instance specific,
they don't have anything
to do with the DOM, or
rendering, or anything.
Real rendering, only happens after
created hook has been called and
there could be on the far compilation and
then virtual DOM rendering.
And eventually,
when the actual DOM has been created,
that's when mounted will be called.
So now, the component is
considered to be in mounted state.
I have a question,
in view router could import food be change
to something like lazy import
to get a slightly simpler
syntax?
>> Evan: Not really,
so the question is really
about async components and
code splitting together.
>> Evan: I think,
this kind of syntax is
already simple enough.
[LAUGH] So the more important
thing is the import syntax,
dynamic import is a spec, right?
Arrow function is part of JavaScript,
dynamic import is part of JavaScript.
We're just using these standard language
features for async components and
close fitting.
Which, in my opinion is better
than having to have a custom
Lazy import function,
which is not part of the standard.
Essentially, we are having our own API
instead of using standard language
features.